1. what is the difference between maven and gradle
a.Gradle does not use an XML file for declaring the project configuration whereas uses an XML file for declaring the project, its dependencies, the build order, and its required plugin.
   Gradle is based on a graph of task dependencies  in which tasks are the things that do the work  while Maven is based on a fixed and linear model of phases. 
   With Maven, goals are attached to project phases, and goals serve a similar function to Gradle’s tasks, being the “things that do the work.”
   
2. what is difference between yaml and properties file
a. No Maps or lists in properties file, but yaml has it
    yaml and properties extensions supports key and values and Yaml has extra support for Arrays and     map types
    yaml supports Integer,Strings,Maps,Lists. properties supports primitive types like strings and numbers
    yaml supports hierarchical structure. Properties upports flat and non hierarchical structure
3. what is profiles in spring boot
a.Spring Profiles provide a way to segregate parts of your application configuration and make it only available in certain environments. 
Any @Component or @Configuration can be marked with @Profile to limit when it is loaded:

@Configuration
@Profile("production")
public class ProductionConfiguration {

    // ...

}
4. difference between internal embedded and external db config
a. By default, the internal database in the master controller is used for authentication. You can choose to use the internal database in a local controller by entering the CLI command aaa authentication-server internal use-local-switch. If you use the internal database in a local controller, you need to add clients on the local controller.


5. what is entity and different types of mappings
a.An entity is a lightweight persistence domain object. Typically, an entity represents a table in a relational database, and each entity instance corresponds to a row in that table. The primary programming artifact of an entity is the entity class, although entities can use helper classes.

> JPA One -to -one Shared primary key relationship mapping
> JPA One -to -one foreign key relationship mapping
> JPA One -to -Many relationship mapping
> JPA Many -to - Many relationship mapping
> JPA Many -to - Many Extra Columns Relationship mapping

6. logging in spring boot application
a.Step 1: Exclude logback and include log4j2. As mentioned earlier, spring boot uses logback as default. ...
  Step 2: Add log4j2 configuration file. Now, add log4j2 specific configuration file in classpath (typically in     resources folder)
  Step 3: With or without Slf4j.